=head1 NAME

Net::IMAP::Simple - Perl extension for simple IMAP account handling.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use Net::IMAP::Simple;
    use Email::Simple;

    # Create the object
    my $imap = Net::IMAP::Simple->new('imap.example.com') ||
       die "Unable to connect to IMAP: $Net::IMAP::Simple::errstr\n";

    # Log on
    if(!$imap->login('user','pass')){
        print STDERR "Login failed: " . $imap->errstr . "\n";
        exit(64);
    }

    # Print the subject's of all the messages in the INBOX
    my $nm = $imap->select('INBOX');

    for(my $i = 1; $i <= $nm; $i++){
        if($imap->seen($i)){
            print "*";
        } else {
            print " ";
        }

        my $es = Email::Simple->new(join '', @{ $imap->top($i) } );

        printf("[%03d] %s\n", $i, $es->header('Subject'));
    }

    $imap->quit;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is a simple way to access IMAP accounts.

=head1 OBJECT CREATION METHOD

    my $imap = Net::IMAP::Simple->new( $server [ :port ]);

    # OR

    my $imap = Net::IMAP::Simple->new( $server [, option_name => option_value ] );

=head2 new

This class method constructs a new L<Net::IMAP::Simple> object. It takes one
required parameter which is the server to connect to, and additional optional
parameters.

The server parameter may specify just the server, or both the server and port
number. To specify an alternate port, seperate it from the server with a colon
(C<:>), C<example.com:5143>.

On success an object is returned. On failure, nothing is returned and an error
message is set to C<$Net::IMAP::Simple>.

Options are provided as a hash to C<new()>:

=over 4

=item port => int

Assign the port number (default: 143)

=item timeout => int (default: 90)

Connection timeout in seconds.

=item retry => int (default: 1)

Attempt to retry the connection attmpt (x) times before giving up

=item retry_delay => int (default: 5)

Wait (x) seconds before retrying a connection attempt

=item use_v6 => BOOL

If set to true, attempt to use IPv6 sockets rather than IPv4 sockets.

This option requires the L<IO::Socket::INET6> module

=item use_ssl => BOOL

If set to true, attempt to use L<IO::Socket::SSL> sockets rather than vanilla sockets.

This option requires the L<IO::Socket::SSL> module

=item bindaddr => str

Assign a local address to bind

=item use_select_cache => BOOL

Enable C<select()> caching internally

=item select_cache_ttl => int

The number of seconds to allow a select cache result live before running
C<$imap->select()> again.

=item debug => BOOL | \*HANDLE

Enable debugging output. If C<\*HANDLE> is a valid file handle, debugging will
be written to it. Otherwise debugging will be written to C<STDOUT>

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item starttls

    $imap->starttls;

If you start an IMAP session and wish to upgrade to SSL later, you can use this
function to start TLS.  This function will try to C<require> L<IO::Socket::SSL>
and L<Net::SSLeay> at runtime.

=item login

  my $inbox_msgs = $imap->login($user, $passwd);

This method takes two required parameters, a username and password. This pair is
authenticated against the server. If authentication is successful TRUE (1) will
be returned

Nothing is returned on failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the
error message.

=item status

    my $num_messages                     = $imap->status($folder);
    my ($unseen, $recent, $num_messages) = $imap->status($folder);

Issue a C<STATUS> command.  The C<STATUS> command counts messages without
altering the state of the named (optionally) mailbox.  It returns either the
number of messages, or the number of unseen messages, recent, and the total
number of messages.

C<$folder> is an optional argument.  C<status()> will use the current mailbox or
C<INBOX> if the C<$folder> argument is not provided.

This method does not use caching.

=item select

    my $num_messages = $imap->select($folder);

Selects a folder named in the single required parameter. The number of messages
in that folder is returned on success. On failure, nothing is returned  and the
C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error message.

=item examine

This is very nearly a synonym for C<select()>.  The only real difference is that
the EXAMINE command is sent to the server instead of SELECT.
L<Net::IMAP::Simple> is otherwise unaware of the read-only-ness of the mailbox.

=item messages

    print "Messages in Junk Mail -- " . $imap->messages("INBOX.Junk Mail") .  "\n";

This method is an alias for C<$imap->select>

=item flags

    print "Avaliable server flags: " . join(", ", $imap->flags) . "\n";

This method accepts an optional folder name and returns the current avaliable
server flags as a list, for the selected folder. If no folder name is provided
the last folder C<< $imap->select >>'ed will be used.

This method uses caching.

=item recent

    print "Recent messages value: " . $imap->recent . "\n";

This method accepts an optional folder name and returns the 'RECENT' value
provided durning a SELECT result set. If no folder name is provided the last
folder C<< $imap->select >>'ed will be used.

This method uses caching.

=item unseen

    print "Unseen messages value: " . $imap->unseen . "\n";

This method accepts an optional folder name and returns the 'UNSEEN' value
provided duringg a SELECT command result. If no folder name is provided the last
folder C<< $imap->select >>'ed will be used.  If a folder name I<is> provided,
this will issue a SELECT first.

This method uses caching.

B<NOTE>: This is not the opposite of L<seen> below.  The UNSEEN value varies
from server to server, but according to the IMAP specification, it should be the
I<number of the first unseen message>, in the case the flag is provided.  (If
the flag is not provided, users would have to use the SEARCH command to find it
-- not implemented.)

=item current_box

   print "Current Mail Box folder: " . $imap->current_box . "\n";

This method returns the current working mail box folder name.

=item top

    my $header = $imap->top( $message_number ); print for @{$header};

This method accepts a message number as its required parameter. That message
will be retrieved from the currently selected folder. On success this method
returns a list reference containing the lines of the header. Nothing is returned
on failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error message.

=item seen

    defined( my $seen = $imap->seen( $message_number ) )
        or warn "problem testing for \Seen: "
              . $imap->errstr;

    print "msg #$message_number has been \Seen!" if $seen;

A message number is the only required parameter for this method.  The message's
C<\Seen> flag will be examined and if the message has been seen a true value is
returned.  A defined false value is returned if the message does not have the
C<\Seen> flag set.  The undefined value is returned when an error has occurred
while checking the flag status.

B<NOTE>: This is not the opposite of L<unseen> above.  This issues a C<FETCH>
command and checks to see if the given message has been C<\Seen> before.

=item deleted

    defined( my $deleted = $imap->deleted( $message_number ) )
        or warn "problem testing for \Deleted: "
              . $imap->errstr;

    print "msg #$message_number has been \Deleted!" if $deleted;

A message number is the only required parameter for this method.  The message's
C<\Deleted> flag will be examined and if the message has been deleted a true
value is returned.  A defined false value is returned if the message does not
have the C<\Deleted> flag set.  The undefined value is returned when an error
has occurred while checking the flag status.

=item list

    my $message_size  = $imap->list($message_number);
    my $mailbox_sizes = $imap->list;

This method returns size information for a message, as indicated in the single
optional parameter, or all messages in a mailbox. When querying a single message
a scalar value is returned. When listing the entire mailbox a hash is returned.
On failure, nothing is returned and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the
error message.

=item get

  my $message = $imap->get( $message_number ) or die $imap->errstr;
  my @message_lines = $map->get( $message_number ) or die $imap->errstr;

This method fetches a message and returns its lines as an array or, the actual
message.  On failure, either an empty list is returned and the C<errstr()> error
handler is set with the error message.

Historically, C<get()> returned the array of lines as a reference to the array
instead of returning the message or the array itself.  Please note that it still
does this, although it may be deprecated in the future.

The scalar result returned is actually a blessed arrayref with the stringify
member overloaded.  If you're intending to use the resulting message as a string
more than once, it I<may> make sense to force the stringification first.

    my $message = $imap->get(1);
       $message = "$message"; # force stringification

It is not normally necessary to do this.

=item put

  $imap->put( $mailbox_name, $message, @flags ) or warn $imap->errstr;

Save a message to the server under the folder named C<$mailbox_name>.  You may
optionally specify flags for the mail (e.g. C<\Seen>, C<\Answered>), but they
must start with a slash.

If C<$msg> is an arrayref, the lines will be printed correctly.

=item msg_flags

    my @flags = $imap->msg_flags( $message_number );
    my $flags = $imap->msg_flags( $message_number );

    # aught to come out roughly the same
    print "Flags on message #$message_number: @flags\n";
    print "Flags on message #$message_number: $flags\n";

Detecting errors with this member functions is usually desirable.  In the scalar
context, detecting an error is synonymous with testing for defined.

    if( defined( my $flags = $imap->msg_flags($num) ) ) {
        # it has $flags!

    } else {
        warn "problem listing flags for message #$num: " 
           . $imap->errstr;
    }

In list context, you must call L<waserr>() to test for success.

    my @flags = $imap->msg_flags($num);
    warn "problem listing flags for msg #$num: "
       . $imap->errstr if $imap->waserr;

=item getfh

  my $file = $imap->getfh( $message_number ); print <$file>;

On success this method returns a file handle pointing to the message identified
by the required parameter. On failure, nothing is returned and the C<errstr()>
error handler is set with the error message.

=item quit

  $imap->quit;

  OR

  $imap->quit(BOOL);

This method logs out of the IMAP server, expunges the selected mailbox, and
closes the connection. No error message will ever be returned from this method.

Optionally if BOOL is TRUE (1) then a hard quit is preformed which closes the
socket connection. This hard quit will still issue both EXPUNGE and LOGOUT
commands however the response is ignored and the socket is closed after issuing
the commands.

=item last

  my $message_number = $imap->last;

This method returns the message number of the last message in the selected
mailbox, since the last time the mailbox was selected. On failure, nothing is
returned and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error message.

=item delete

  print "Gone!" if $imap->delete( $message_number );

This method sets the C<\Deleted> flag on the given message (or messages). On
success it returns true, false on failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is
set with the error message.  If the flag was already there, no error is
produced.  I takes either a message number or L<sequence set> as the only
argument.  Note that messages aren't actually deleted until they are expunged
(see L<expunge_mailbox>).

=item undelete

  print "Resurrected!" if $imap->undelete( $message_number );

This method removes the C<\Deleted> flag on the given message. On success it
returns true, false on failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the
error message.  If the flag wasn't there, no error is produced.

=item see

  print "You've seen message #$msgno" if $imap->see( $messageno );

This method sets the C<\Seen> flag on the given message. On success it returns
true, false on failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error
message.  If the flag was already there, no error is produced.

=item unsee

  print "You've not seen message #$msgno" if $imap->unsee( $messageno );

This method removes the C<\Seen> flag on the given message. On success it
returns true, false on failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the
error message.  If the flag wasn't there, no error is produced.

=item add_flags

L<delete> and L<see> above really just call this function for those flags.

   $imap->add_flags( $msgno, qw(\Seen \Deleted) )
        or die $imap->errstr;

=item sub_flags

L<unsee> above really just calls this function for that flag.

   $imap->sub_flags( $msgno, '\Seen' ) or die $imap->errstr;

=item mailboxes

  my @boxes   = $imap->mailboxes;
  my @folders = $imap->mailboxes("Mail/%");
  my @lists   = $imap->mailboxes("lists/perl/*", "/Mail/");

This method returns a list of mailboxes. When called with no arguments it
recurses from the IMAP root to get all mailboxes. The first optional argument is
a mailbox path and the second is the path reference. RFC 3501 section 6.3.8 has
more information.

On failure nothing is returned and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the
error message.

=item mailboxes_subscribed

  my @boxes   = $imap->mailboxes_subscribed;
  my @folders = $imap->mailboxes_subscribed("Mail/%");
  my @lists   = $imap->mailboxes_subscribed("lists/perl/*", "/Mail/");

This method returns a list of mailboxes subscribed to. When called with no
arguments it recurses from the IMAP root to get all mailboxes. The first
optional argument is a mailbox path and the second is the path reference. RFC
3501 has more information.

On failure nothing is returned and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the
error message.

=item create_mailbox

  print "Created" if $imap->create_mailbox( "/Mail/lists/perl/advocacy" );

This method creates the mailbox named in the required argument. Returns true on
success, false on failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error
message.

=item expunge_mailbox

  my @expunged = $imap->expunge_mailbox( "/Mail/lists/perl/advocacy" );
  die $imap->errstr if $imap->waserr;

  my $expunged = $imap->expunge_mailbox( "/Mail/lists/perl/advocacy" )
      or die $imap->errstr;

This method removes all mail marked as deleted in the mailbox named in the
required argument. Returns either the number of messages that were expunged, or
the indexes of those messages -- which has a questionable usefulness since it
tends to return numbers that don't relate to the message numbers marked with the
C<\Deleted> flags.

If 0 messages were expunged without error, the function will return C<0E0> so it
will still test true, but also evaluate to 0.

In list context, you must call L<waserr>() to test for success.

=item delete_mailbox

  print "Deleted" if $imap->delete_mailbox( "/Mail/lists/perl/advocacy" );

This method deletes the mailbox named in the required argument. Returns true on
success, false on failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error
message.

=item rename_mailbox

  print "Renamed" if $imap->rename_mailbox( $old => $new );

This method renames the mailbox in the first required argument to the mailbox
named in the second required argument. Returns true on success, false on failure
and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error message.

=item folder_subscribe

  print "Subscribed" if $imap->folder_subscribe( "/Mail/lists/perl/advocacy" );

This method subscribes to the folder. Returns true on success, false on failure
and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error message.

=item folder_unsubscribe

  print "Unsubscribed" if $imap->folder_unsubscribe( "/Mail/lists/perl/advocacy" );

This method un-subscribes to the folder. Returns true on success, false on
failure and the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error message.

=item copy

  print "copied" if $imap->copy( $message_number, $mailbox );

This method copies the message number (or L<sequence set>) in the currently
selected mailbox to the fold specified in the second argument.  Both arguments
are required.  On success this method returns true. Returns false on failure and
the C<errstr()> error handler is set with the error message.

=item errstr

 print "Login ERROR: " . $imap->errstr . "\n" if !$imap->login($user, $pass);

Return the last error string captured for the last operation which failed.

=item waserr

 my @flags = $imap->msg_flags(14);
 die $imap->errstr if $imap->waserr;

Because C<msg_flags()> can optionally return a list, it's not really possible to
detect failure in list context.  Therefore, you must call C<waserr()> if you
wish to detect errors.

Few of the L<Net::IMAP::Simple> methods use C<waserr()>.  The ones that do will
mention it.

=back

=head1 OTHER NOTES

=over 4

=item sequence set

Message numbers are never checked before being passed to the IMAP server (this
is a "simple" module afteral), so in most places where a message number is
required, you can instead use so-called I<sequence sets>.  Examples:

    $imap->copy(   "3,4,9:22", "ANOTHERBOX" ) or die $imap->errstr;
    $imap->delete( "3,4,9:22", "ANOTHERBOX" ) or die $imap->errstr;

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

=over 4

=item Creator

Joao Fonseca C<< <joao_g_fonseca@yahoo.com> >>

=item 2004 maintainer

Casey West C<< <casey@geeknst.com> >>

=item 2005 maintainer

Colin Faber C<< <cfaber@fpsn.net> >>

=item 2009 maintainer

Paul Miller C<< <jettero@cpan.org> >>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2009 Paul Miller
Copyright (c) 2005 Colin Faber
Copyright (c) 2004 Casey West
Copyright (c) 1999 Joao Fonseca

All rights reserved. This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 BUGS

There's tons, I'm trying to slog through them:

L<https://rt.cpan.org/Dist/Display.html?Queue=Net-IMAP-Simple>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl>, L<Net::IMAP::Server>, L<IO::Socket::SSL>, L<IO::Socket::INET6>
